Hi, it's Wojciech Lesniak.
Welcome to this module where we will explore what Spring Security is,
what benefits it brings to your application,
and why you should consider using it to secure your applications.
In a nutshell.
Spring Security is a highly customizable authentication and
access control framework for Java applications.
Out of the box, with just a few lines of configuration,
it gives you a robust selection of authentication and authorization
strategies that you can leverage from basic authentication,
form, OpenID Connect, OAuth2, LDAP, JWTs,
you name it.
It also protects your application from common security threats,
such as session fixation, clickjacking, cross‑site request forgery,
and cross‑site scripting.
Now Spring Security actually begins securing your application at the
browser by instructing it to communicate more securely with your
server and then server side by providing access control into your
application and even internally in your code for access control on
method calls and domain objects.
It's an application layer security framework,
so you're not tied to any web server's proprietary security implementation,
making your application portable.
It's also loosely coupled.
You can configure it in such a way that you can easily migrate your
app's security to another framework in the future.
It also has a solid track record, and it's been around since 2003,
and it's maintained by a large open source community of security
nerds with a vested interest in keeping the framework up to date
with the latest security threats and trends,
vulnerabilities and best practices.
And let's face it,
most developers would rather work on new and exciting
features rather than writing security code,
and that's not necessarily a bad thing.
The new and exciting features are what pay the bills
and keep the competition at bay.
So why reinvent the wheel?
There's safety within the herd.
You don't want to be the lone sheep when wolves are around.
In fact,
due to the increased adoption of security frameworks like Spring Security,
vulnerabilities such as cross‑site request forgery and cross‑site
scripting are no longer on the OWASP top 10.
In this course,
we will look at how you can correctly configure Spring Security
in your web applications and how you can tailor the framework to
your specific security requirements.
But before we get stuck into configuring Spring Security,
let's clear up a few important concepts that we will be using frequently throughout the remainder of the course.